documentation/opencast-installation.md, before:

# Opencast Installation Instructions

## Installing the Annotation Tool

__Note:__ These are the installation instructions for the Opencast `r/6.x` branch or higher.

You should make sure that you intended Opencast version was build at least once on the machine you use to build the
Annotation tool, as this will create the needed dependency for Opencast modules in your local Maven repository. This may change
in the future when Opencast packages might become available on the Nexus repository server.

In general you should follow the [installation from source](https://docs.opencast.org/r/6.x/admin/installation/)
instructions for Opencast.

If you want to use the annotation tool in your production system, you can copy over the JAR-files from
__<opencast_home>/deploy/opencast-annotation-*__ to the deploy dir of the other Opencast.

### Preparing the Build of Opencast with the Annotation Tool
Additional to the Opencast source code you will also need the source code for the Annotation Tool.
In this manual we use `<annotationtool-dir>` for the base dir of the Annotation Tool checkout and
`<opencast-dir>` as the directory where your Opencast build/binaries are.

#### Cloning the Annotation Tool Git repository

    git clone https://github.com/opencast/annotation-tool.git

### Building the Annotation Tool

    mvn clean install -DdeployTo=<opencast-dir> -Dopencast.version=<your Opencast version number>

This should build the frontend, include it into the Opencast modules and copies the JARs
to your Opencast installation.

Note that if you are building against an Opencast version prior to 7,
you currently need to skip the tests due to an incompatibility
between Opencast 6 and 7.
You can do this by passing the additional option `-Dmaven.test.skip`
to Maven in the command above.

#### As a Karaf Feature

As an alternative, the Annotation Tool is also packaged as a Karaf feature
under the name `opencast-annotation-tool` and the Maven coordinates

    org.opencast.annotation:karaf-feature:${version}:xml:features

where `${version}` is to be replaced by the version of the annotation tool.

You can conveniently install it using the following Karaf shell commands:

    feature:repo-add mvn:org.opencast.annotation/karaf-feature/${version}/xml/features
    feature:install opencast-annotation-tool

Unfortunately this will only install the tool for the current session; it will not survive an Opencast restart.
To install it permanently into your system, open up `etc/org.apache.karaf.features.cfg` in your Opencast directory
and make the following modifications:

Add the feature repository already mentioned above to the list aptly named `featureRepositories`.
For example if it looks like this:

    featuresRepositories = \
        mvn:org.opencastproject.assemblies/opencast-karaf-features/4.1/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/enterprise/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.cxf.karaf/apache-cxf/3.1.12/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/framework/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/standard/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.ops4j.pax.web/pax-web-features/4.3.0/xml/features

change it to this (the change is in the last two lines):

    featuresRepositories = \
        mvn:org.opencastproject.assemblies/opencast-karaf-features/4.1/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/enterprise/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.cxf.karaf/apache-cxf/3.1.12/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/framework/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/standard/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.ops4j.pax.web/pax-web-features/4.3.0/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.opencast.annotate/karaf-feature/${version}/xml/features

Note that the version numbers appearing in your configuration file
will probably differ from those in this example snippet!

This enables you to say `feature:install opencast-annotation-tool` at the Karaf console
without the `repo-add` step mentioned above. To start the Annotation Tool automatically,
add `opencast-annotation-tool` to the list `featuresBoot` in the same configuration file
mentioned above in the same fashion to how you added the repository.

Note that for this to work, you need to have built the Annotation Tool at least once,
so that the corresponding Maven artifacts can be found by Karaf, since they are currently not
in any remote repository!

## Configuration of Opencast

### Adding ACL Actions

The Annotation Tool uses [custom ACL actions](https://docs.opencast.org/develop/admin/configuration/acl/#additional-acl-actions)
to control access to its videos. These actions are `annotate` and `annotate-admin` and they need to be installed
in your Opencast setup via a list provider. A template for this is provided with the source tree under
`/opencast-backend/etc/listproviders/acl.additional.actions.properties`.
To install it, please follow the instructions in the link above, or if you already have an ACL action list provider,
just append the following snippet to it:

```
# Allow users to simply use the annotation tool with a video,
# i.e. to create their own annotations, tracks, categories, etc.
Annotate=annotate
# Allow users to manage the annotation tool environment for a video.
# Also gives them access to other people's annotations.
Manage\ annotations=annotate-admin
```

Users are only allowed to access the annotation tool if the have the action `annotate` or `annotate-admin` set for this recording.

### Adding Distribution to Annotation Tool to the Workflow

Although the Annotation Tool can access a recording when it shows up in the Opencast search service, the Annotation Tool can also be added to the list of publications for an event. 

Within the `etc/workflows/partial-publish` you need to add this operation to the `<operations>` section. It is recommended to add it after the "publish-engage" operation.

    <operation
      id="publish-configure"
      exception-handler-workflow="partial-error"
      description="Publish to preview publication channel">
      <configurations>
        <configuration key="source-tags">preview</configuration>
        <configuration key="channel-id">annotation</configuration>
        <configuration key="url-pattern">http://localhost:8080/annotation-tool/index.html?id=${event_id}</configuration>
      </configurations>
    </operation>

You can add this operation also to every other workflow definition that should distribute videos to the Annotation Tool.

Additionally you must set the label for the annotation publication channel. Add to the file `etc/listproviders/publication.channel.labels.properties` the following line:

    annotation=Annotation Tool

### Security Configuration

In order to be able to access the tool,
you need to make some additions to your Spring Security configuration.
In a single-tenant setup,
this can be found at `<opencast-etc>/security/mh_default_org.xml`.
If you have a multi-tenant setup,
you probably know where this configuration needs to go
better than I do. :wink:

What you need is something to the effect of the following two lines:

    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/annotation-tool/**" access="ROLE_ANONYMOUS" />
    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/extended-annotations/**" access="ROLE_ANONYMOUS" />

Note that this grants **everyone** access to every resource
under the paths `/annotation-tool` and `/extended-annotations`.
If you don't do anything out of the ordinary this should be fine,
since all of the Annotation Tool endpoints that need to
handle their own authentication.

If you start from the default configuration file,
these lines should go somewhere in the section titled

    <!-- ################ -->
    <!-- # URL SECURITY # -->
    <!-- ################ -->

but before the wildcard rule

    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/**" access="ROLE_ADMIN, ROLE_COURSE_ADMIN" />

---

Note that the rules

    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/annotation/**" method="GET" access="ROLE_ANONYMOUS" />
    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/annotation/**" method="PUT" access="ROLE_ANONYMOUS" />

have **nothing** to do with the Opencast Annotation Tool whatsoever!

## Using the Tool

To use the Annotation Tool you need to open it with the event-ID:

    http://my.opencast.tld:8080/annotation-tool/index.html?id=<my-event-id>

For a user to access a video using the annotation tool, they (or any role they inhabit) have to have at least one
of these ACL actions `annotate` or `annotate-admin` enabled on the video in question.

Also note that the annotation tool currently does not work with the fast testing workflow, that Opencast provides.

Commit message:

Can use Ext API for annotations
Now the annotation tool can use
with the opencast external API instead of the search endpoint.
This can be configured adding the flag -Denvironment=ExtApi in the maven
build command.

documentation/opencast-installation.md, after:

# Opencast Installation Instructions

## Installing the Annotation Tool

__Note:__ These are the installation instructions for the Opencast `r/6.x` branch or higher.

You should make sure that you intended Opencast version was build at least once on the machine you use to build the
Annotation tool, as this will create the needed dependency for Opencast modules in your local Maven repository. This may change
in the future when Opencast packages might become available on the Nexus repository server.

In general you should follow the [installation from source](https://docs.opencast.org/r/6.x/admin/installation/)
instructions for Opencast.

If you want to use the annotation tool in your production system, you can copy over the JAR-files from
__<opencast_home>/deploy/opencast-annotation-*__ to the deploy dir of the other Opencast.

### Preparing the Build of Opencast with the Annotation Tool
Additional to the Opencast source code you will also need the source code for the Annotation Tool.
In this manual we use `<annotationtool-dir>` for the base dir of the Annotation Tool checkout and
`<opencast-dir>` as the directory where your Opencast build/binaries are.

#### Cloning the Annotation Tool Git repository

    git clone https://github.com/opencast/annotation-tool.git

### Building the Annotation Tool

    mvn clean install -DdeployTo=<opencast-dir> -Dopencast.version=<your Opencast version number>

This should build the frontend, include it into the Opencast modules and copies the JARs
to your Opencast installation.

Note that **if you are building against an Opencast version prior to 7,**
**you currently need to skip the tests** due to an incompatibility
between Opencast 6 and 7.
You can do this by passing the additional option `-Dmaven.test.skip`
to Maven in the command above.

#### Use the External API
The annotation tool is made to use the search endpoint by default, if you want to build the Annotation 
tool to work with the External API instead of the search endpoint use the flag `-Denvironment=ExtApi`

If you have a multicluster deployment, remember that the External API is only available on the admin node.

#### As a Karaf Feature

As an alternative, the Annotation Tool is also packaged as a Karaf feature
under the name `opencast-annotation-tool` and the Maven coordinates

    org.opencast.annotation:karaf-feature:${version}:xml:features

where `${version}` is to be replaced by the version of the annotation tool.

You can conveniently install it using the following Karaf shell commands:

    feature:repo-add mvn:org.opencast.annotation/karaf-feature/${version}/xml/features
    feature:install opencast-annotation-tool

Unfortunately this will only install the tool for the current session; it will not survive an Opencast restart.
To install it permanently into your system, open up `etc/org.apache.karaf.features.cfg` in your Opencast directory
and make the following modifications:

Add the feature repository already mentioned above to the list aptly named `featureRepositories`.
For example if it looks like this:

    featuresRepositories = \
        mvn:org.opencastproject.assemblies/opencast-karaf-features/4.1/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/enterprise/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.cxf.karaf/apache-cxf/3.1.12/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/framework/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/standard/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.ops4j.pax.web/pax-web-features/4.3.0/xml/features

change it to this (the change is in the last two lines):

    featuresRepositories = \
        mvn:org.opencastproject.assemblies/opencast-karaf-features/4.1/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/enterprise/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.cxf.karaf/apache-cxf/3.1.12/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/framework/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.apache.karaf.features/standard/4.0.9/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.ops4j.pax.web/pax-web-features/4.3.0/xml/features, \
        mvn:org.opencast.annotate/karaf-feature/${version}/xml/features

Note that the version numbers appearing in your configuration file
will probably differ from those in this example snippet!

This enables you to say `feature:install opencast-annotation-tool` at the Karaf console
without the `repo-add` step mentioned above. To start the Annotation Tool automatically,
add `opencast-annotation-tool` to the list `featuresBoot` in the same configuration file
mentioned above in the same fashion to how you added the repository.

Note that for this to work, you need to have built the Annotation Tool at least once,
so that the corresponding Maven artifacts can be found by Karaf, since they are currently not
in any remote repository!

## Configuration of Opencast

### Adding ACL Actions

The Annotation Tool uses [custom ACL actions](https://docs.opencast.org/develop/admin/configuration/acl/#additional-acl-actions)
to control access to its videos. These actions are `annotate` and `annotate-admin` and they need to be installed
in your Opencast setup via a list provider. A template for this is provided with the source tree under
`/opencast-backend/etc/listproviders/acl.additional.actions.properties`.
To install it, please follow the instructions in the link above, or if you already have an ACL action list provider,
just append the following snippet to it:

```
# Allow users to simply use the annotation tool with a video,
# i.e. to create their own annotations, tracks, categories, etc.
Annotate=annotate
# Allow users to manage the annotation tool environment for a video.
# Also gives them access to other people's annotations.
Manage\ annotations=annotate-admin
```

Users are only allowed to access the annotation tool if the have the action `annotate` or `annotate-admin` set for this recording.

### Adding Distribution to Annotation Tool to the Workflow

Although the Annotation Tool can access a recording when it shows up in the Opencast search service, the Annotation Tool can also be added to the list of publications for an event. 

Within the `etc/workflows/partial-publish` you need to add this operation to the `<operations>` section. It is recommended to add it after the "publish-engage" operation.

    <operation
      id="publish-configure"
      exception-handler-workflow="partial-error"
      description="Publish to preview publication channel">
      <configurations>
        <configuration key="source-flavors">dublincore/*,security/*</configuration>
        <configuration key="source-tags">preview</configuration>
        <configuration key="channel-id">annotation</configuration>
        <configuration key="url-pattern">http://localhost:8080/annotation-tool/index.html?id=${event_id}</configuration>
      </configurations>
    </operation>

You can add this operation also to every other workflow definition that should distribute videos to the Annotation Tool.

Additionally you must set the label for the annotation publication channel. Add to the file `etc/listproviders/publication.channel.labels.properties` the following line:

    annotation=Annotation Tool

### Security Configuration

In order to be able to access the tool,
you need to make some additions to your Spring Security configuration.
In a single-tenant setup,
this can be found at `<opencast-etc>/security/mh_default_org.xml`.
If you have a multi-tenant setup,
you probably know where this configuration needs to go
better than I do. :wink:

What you need is something to the effect of the following two lines:

    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/annotation-tool/**" access="ROLE_ANONYMOUS" />
    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/extended-annotations/**" access="ROLE_ANONYMOUS" />

Note that this grants **everyone** access to every resource
under the paths `/annotation-tool` and `/extended-annotations`.
If you don't do anything out of the ordinary this should be fine,
since all of the Annotation Tool endpoints that need to
handle their own authentication.

If you start from the default configuration file,
these lines should go somewhere in the section titled

    <!-- ################ -->
    <!-- # URL SECURITY # -->
    <!-- ################ -->

but before the wildcard rule

    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/**" access="ROLE_ADMIN, ROLE_COURSE_ADMIN" />

---

Note that the rules

    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/annotation/**" method="GET" access="ROLE_ANONYMOUS" />
    <sec:intercept-url pattern="/annotation/**" method="PUT" access="ROLE_ANONYMOUS" />

have **nothing** to do with the Opencast Annotation Tool whatsoever!

## Using the Tool

To use the Annotation Tool you need to open it with the event-ID:

    http://my.opencast.tld:8080/annotation-tool/index.html?id=<my-event-id>

For a user to access a video using the annotation tool, they (or any role they inhabit) have to have at least one
of these ACL actions `annotate` or `annotate-admin` enabled on the video in question.

Also note that the annotation tool currently does not work with the fast testing workflow, that Opencast provides.
